Was that the year, were you there the year when the group marched on Gibb Gilchrist's house?
No, that must have been a year or two before I came to NM.
Who was the president when you arrived?
You know, I wouldn't have...
I wouldn't have cared.
Gilchrist may have been the president.
The first president I have, well,
Because I don't believe it was Harrington yet.
No, it wasn't Harrington.
It may have been Gilchrist.
I don't know.
We didn't care.
Administration at the university meant nothing to us.
We knew more about the commandant and all of the military classes and all of that.
We didn't have any idea who was
a department head or a dean or a president or anything, and it just wasn't part of our interest.
As far as you and your buddies were aware, what were the most important student leadership roles?
Only significant leadership roles were officers in the court could do it.
and I guess the Ross Volunteers.
And that was, again, not that big a deal.
It was strictly just your flight and your core organizational structure, your first sergeant and CO and stuff like that.
Did the L leader mean much?
Not a great deal.
Now, the veterans were still occupying some of the project houses and some temporary structures.
Yeah, they were pretty well all gone the time I left to graduate here in 1952.
Okay.
We went from about 12,000 students down to about 7,000 the time I graduated.
Were there any difficulties that you realized that Brian Field Fish had when they came back the next year to the campus as sophomores?
Did they blend in well?
No, I didn't see any problem.
You know, there were so few of us that...
You just had to stick together, and then the outfits were, you know, they were anxious to have the people from the air base come into their outfit.
You had to keep, you had to have enough people to have an outfit.
Was Pinky Downs around in those years?
Yes, Pinky was here.
Describe Pinky and his role.
Well, Pinky, I knew him as being at our football practices every day.
Pinky would be there.
He was a great supporter of athletics, and I remember I was practicing football one afternoon, and I had that particular play.
They ran around
They ran around their left and would have been over on my right.
And we used to run a power play to the right and left.
I got tangled up in the middle of that thing, and you had about six guys running interference.
Anyhow, when I got up out of the mire and looked up, there was my dad.
It unexpectedly appeared.
About the only time he'd ever been here again.
And he was talking to Pinky Downs.
And he always remembered Pinky.
To have gotten up off and see my father and Pinky there was kind of a strange vision.
What was Pinky's task?
I never did know.
I didn't even know.
I don't know whether he even worked or anything.
He was just at football practice.
I don't know whether he was employed by the university or not.
His daughter was.
His daughter was named Gray, I think.
Gray Downs.
She worked at the bookstore.
I think she was Miss Texas or something when she was growing up.
Now, during your sophomore year, do you begin to zero in on agriculture as a major?
Oh, I guess so.
You know, you only really kind of had only about two routes, three routes to go.
You could either go engineering or agriculture or business, and business was thought to be the run and play curriculum.
Those that couldn't do engineering or agriculture took business, I guess.
Oh, were there any CUSH courses for athletes?
No.
No, we were thrown right in with all of them.
But was there any course that y'all might take?
No.
One course to get a grade point?
I guess the only way that you might have
been a little easier if you really wanted to be a coach or something to have taken more, which was going to be your vocation more.
But no, we never had any, never had any preferential treatment or we were in the same student body and the same quizzes and everything.
Right, now did you go all four years and then to vet school?
I went four years, finished in 52, and then went to the Air Force.
We all had to go to the Korean War.
And then came back.
And then I came back in 54.
We'll get to that in a minute.
When you and your buddies went off campus for fun, where did you all go?
We didn't go off campus.
I mean, that's a peculiar thing.
There was one place in town that I went with, used to go, went once or twice with football players called Navels.
What?
Navels, which was a
Place that sold beer in Bryan.
Remember how to spell it?
N-A-V-E-L-S.
Navels.
Where?
Downtown Bryan?
It was in Bryan.
I'd say I probably only went to Bryan twice while I was at all
time I was nearly at A&M, but there was a football player named Jones, Desmond Jones, from Orange, Texas.
Doing well.
And he was a little on the risque side
And he used to, he took me into Navels a couple of times.
He was my classmate at Orange High.
Desmond Jones.
And he ended up at.
He didn't stay here but one semester or one year.
And he ended up then at being a coach at McNeese State.
Is that right?
And a fellow named R.C.
Slocum was one of his products.
Is that right?
Because R.C.'
's from Orange also.
He was a fun guy.
He had a gold tooth or something.
We were real good friends.
I think he only stayed here a semester.
He didn't quite make it academically.
I can't remember.
Desmond Jones.
I went to Navel's with him a couple of times.
Did you know of anybody who went to Whiskey Bridge?
No.
What about Uncle Ed's?
I may have
I don't know whether Uncle Ed's was still there.
It may have still been there when I came back to vet school.
I can't remember how long.
I had been there maybe once while I was at school.
Did y'all go to the campus theater much?
No, I never went to Campus Theater.
Guy and Hall was open at that time, and so it was right across the street from Hart Hall, and we'd sit out there and wait until the ticket girl left at the last feature, and we'd go over to Guy and Hall sometime.
Describe what went on during the movie in Guyon Hall with a room full of Aggies.
I don't remember being any different than any other place.
All right, I've heard that sometimes they'd yell out laugh and boo and cheer.
I don't remember that.
Okay.
Of course, having slipped in, I probably wouldn't be saying much.
Now, did you have any dates when you were an undergraduate here?
No.
Well, I may have a girl that I married from Beaumont used to come on Mother's Day when my mother would come.
And she came to the senior ring dance, I believe.
Now this was, you had known her in high school.
Yeah.
And how did she?
In the junior prom, junior prom.
How did y'all communicate while you were a student?
Did you write?
Oh, a letter every night, boy.
Did you write her every night?
Yeah.
And how often did you call her?
Oh, never.
We didn't have any telephone.
And what was she, was she in school?
She was at Lamar College.
She was at Lamar, okay.
Lamar Junior College.
Did she come to any of the dances here before your senior year?
Yeah, no.
Yeah, my junior prom.
Did we have a junior?
I had something my junior year.
And where did she stay?
Well, she got to stay at the MSC.
It was brand new.
Didn't have about ten rooms or something.
I don't know how I got that room.
I guess her mother wouldn't let her come unless I had some arrangements.
And do you remember how she came?
Did she come on the train or the bus?
I want to think that there was another girl from Beaumont that came, and they may have come by car.
I can't remember how she got here.
Now, she could have come by train.
I rode the train once from Beaumont because in the winter of 49, it got down to about six below here and snowed
about two feet or something, all over the state of Texas.
And I couldn't get back, so I had to ride a, I rode a train back from Beaumont one time.
The, um, you went to some of the other dances, though, even without a date.
No.
You didn't?
Didn't care anything about it.
We didn't have any social things going on.
It just, and you had the time you got through with military and intermules and studying.
You didn't have time for anything, you know.
Right.
The Korean War started in the summer of 1950.
And then that fall,
that we were all told that we'd have troops home by Christmas, but then it went bad that fall.
And where I was in college, a lot of the students didn't come back after Christmas to finish the fall semester.
They went ahead and volunteered.
What were you and your buddies thinking about that war?
You were in the Corps?
We were in the Corps and going to be commissioned, of course, and so we were...
We felt like that's the reason we were here, was to go to the service.
And so we were anxious to get into the service.
And, of course, I being in the Air Force Corps,
The ground cadets always said they were the ones that really fought the war.
They were going to fight the war, the fly boys.
weren't going to be very much use in the war.
But we were, they say it was so different from some of the others.
The fact that we were very anxious to go and looking forward to it, that was just part of it.
Did your, after your junior year, did you go to summer training?
No, we didn't have to go to summer training because I can't remember why.
Everybody always went to summer camp.
But we didn't have to go because maybe the war was on or because we knew we were going straight into the service.
But I didn't go to summer camp between my junior and senior year like everybody did.
I don't know why.
During your senior year, did events in Korea seem to affect any of the military training here?
No, no.
Didn't seem to impact on anything.
We just knew there was a war and that we were going to the service.
As you and your friends were getting ready for graduation, how did you all feel?
Oh, we, most of us were, of course, we were commissioned at graduation, and we knew we were going.
We just, we had to go and, we had to leave and go back home until we got our orders cut.
We didn't know when we were going, but we waited.
We were anxious to get our orders, and I could have
I could have stayed at A&M instead of going to the service, but because I could have gone on, continued my education in veterinary college.
But I decided I wanted to go ahead and get my service obligations out of the way, and I did that.
Now, how soon were you sure Veteran Medicine was going to be your future?
Oh, that was occurred.
I had talked to Dr. Boughton, Dean Boughton, before I went to the service.
And he, just a little bit about what it, you know, about getting in, what it was like and so forth.
Never thought much about it.
Christmas before I was to finish up Air Force, I happened to tell my wife I might go by College Station and see what it would take to go to veterinary school.
So I went by and I talked to them again and they said, well, you need two chemistry courses and a physics course to get into veterinary school.
So I went to night school for a semester, my last year in the service and took chemistry and physics at night and got in.
It wasn't quite as difficult to get in then as it is now.
All right, now we want to talk about vet school in a minute, but let's finish your undergraduate days first.
Describe your final review as a senior.
Oh, final review and all of that.
Who was here and where was it?
Oh, it was over on the drill field.
Of course, we had a situation.
We had a...
We had a commandant here named Boatner that was really tough.
I mean, he drove around the Jeep.
You say the commandant?
Yeah.
Bolton?
Boatner.
Oh, oh, Boatner.
Oh, oh, yes, yes, yes.
General Boatner.
Yes.
He drove around in a jeep and he dressed us down.
Anytime he saw anything, he was hard on us.
I remember one football game, one of those cadets took his jacket off and gave it to a girl, his girlfriend, because she was about to freeze.
Boatner saw that and put him on a bullring for the rest of the year.
Anyhow, the
We had, of course, march buys and commissioning and all that was tied together.
I probably remember more the final review when I was a junior, when I was made a senior because I got my boots and everything.
Where'd you buy your boots?
I bought them from another student.
Secondhand I paid fifteen or twenty dollars for Calvary boots and a pair, two pair of boot pants.
One was pinks, they were wool and one was khaki and spurs.
And how long did you keep the boots?
Till I graduated and I sold them.
For how much?
Probably the same thing.
Broke even?
Yeah, a friend of mine died the other day and I went to his funeral and they had his senior boots.
I didn't have any inclination of keeping them because I needed that money.
And what kind of feelings did you have when you first put on those boots?
Oh, it was something that you really had looked forward to and worked for.
I don't think they fitted too well, best I remember, but I certainly couldn't have a pair made.
You didn't get any blisters?
Yeah, it seemed like they weren't exactly the right size, but
Were there any special times when you wore those boots during your senior year that... Oh, we march-ins, I guess.
Court trips.
We didn't wear them routinely, of course.
It was just mainly for a ceremony.
All right, and then commencement, well, so who, who, family and friends came to commencement and find review?
Oh, I imagine my, I think my mother and daddy and... Did that special, young lady who... And Mary, I guess.
We didn't have large numbers.
I know when I finally used to chair the...
Graduation for the veterinary college, we used to figure on, we needed space for 15 visitors for every graduate.
But when I graduated, it was my mother and dad, and Mary is all I remember.
And we graduated on Kyle Field.
And I don't, for life, remember who spoke at graduation or anything.
Eisenhower had been here my senior year and that was a big deal.
I just remember that event on Kyle Field when he came here and spoke in 51 or 52.
Was every at commencement every name called, every hand shaken?
Yes.
You were handed your diploma?
Yes, yes.
And did you think that you were probably going off to Korea pretty soon?
Oh, yeah.
We all preferred that we could have gotten orders then and left from here rather than having to go home and wait.
What was the typical student attitude about the war?
Oh, we didn't look at it from any political reason for it or anything else except it was a conflict that the country had involved itself and that it was, if the country thought it was something that needed to be done, you know, we were just anxious to go.
I mean, it was just something we'd been trained for.
Do you remember any student activism against the war?
No, no, no, no, no.
Everybody was, that's what we came to A&M for.
How well prepared did you think A&M had, how much preparation did you think A&M had given you for the real world of being an officer?
Excellent compared to other ROTC graduates.
Why did you think that?
Well, most of us ended up as really section chiefs and
My career ended up setting up a pre-flight train school at Lackland Air Force Base, and they took 60 A&M lieutenants and made us
had us set the program up and operate the whole pre-flight program and all of the other OOTC graduates were under our supervision.
So for what we did, we were well prepared.
And how much did that ring cost?
$35.
Remember where you got the money?
I remember getting it.
I remember.
Was it, did your parents give it to you or did you?
No, I'm sure I paid for it myself.
And it was, we had a ring clerk, and I can't, my wife, I remember.
But getting a badge for your ring and everything was kind of, it was a,
I guess more than boots or anything was the biggest thing.
I don't, not having, not having graduated from another college, I don't know how significant graduation rings were, but to us it was the ultimate, I guess, we got them when we were juniors.
Do you have any ring stories to tell of where you lost it and found?
No, no.
Any place you've been?
Don't take it off.
Have you ever been somewhere and someone spotted it somewhere on the other side of the world or something like that?
No, that's happened a lot, but I can't recall.
I mean, that's something that A&M graduates always look for when you go into it.
Anywhere you go, a restaurant or anywhere, you just look for an Aggie ring.
You always whip out and meet people.
It's just so routine you don't think anything about it.
All right, you go to the Air Force and you're on active duty how long?
Two years.
Then come back and admitted to... Veterinary College.
Veterinary College in the fall of 50... 54.
What was the routine?
You're the first one now, so this is all brand new area to me.
What was the routine then for application and admission?
Well, you made application probably like
January, fall, I mean January perhaps of the year that you were going to hope to get in.
They had very specific prerequisites that you had to have to get in.
And then they had a selection process.
And I can't, have no idea how many applicants they had at that time.
I know everybody coming into my class had a better than a three-point grade point average.
We had a change of deans from the time I graduated, undergraduate, came back to vet school from Dean Boughton to Dean Armistead, who was a very, very
stick there for cleanliness and dress and grades and academics and so when I came back the service of veterinary school had changed quite a bit.
We were getting ready to move into new new facilities.
Now where were those new facilities?
here where they are now.
And what was over here?
West Campus.
This was it.
How big?
What described the structures that opened that fall?
Well, there were two buildings and we had the Basic Sciences building and a distance of several hundred yards between it and then we had the clinics.
We had a small animal, a large animal clinic and
The clinic portion was built first because I took my first semester or first year of veterinary school on main campus in the old veterinary complex, and then we moved out here maybe in the spring.
I can't remember.
That would have been spring of 55.
The clinics were started, I guess, in the fall of 54.
And how many were in that, entered that fall in 54?
We took 64 in a class.
64.
Had that number been standard for a good while?
Yeah, it seemed to be all of it in their schools.
It was pretty standard.
It was so that...